okay open your eyes and let the world in
follow me on a journey into your bodies
second most complex organ after the
brain but pay attention now all of this
will happen in the blink of an eye first
job at hand
get inside let's follow this dust
particle it floats up and lands on the
cornea that's the outer dome covering
your eye you can feel its shape right
now close your lids put your index
finger over them wash your hands first
and move your eyes side to side feel
that bump that's it no blood vessels
here your corneas get oxygen directly
from the air so your eyes breathe but
it's full of super sensitive nerves they
sense something foreign and the fastest
muscles in your body get to work your
eye blinks that dust particle gets
washed away let's try this again the
only way to get into the eye is with
light that's how your vision works and
it's why you can't see in the dark
duh but how do we see objects that don't
emit light themselves the light coming
from the source be it a light bulb or
the Sun hits the object some of it gets
absorbed and some of it bounces off and
enters our eye it's a nice reflection on
you more on that a bit later for now
it's way too dark in this room
somebody flip a switch ah that's better
we zoom along going the speed of light
and pass through the Corney it's dome
shape to help focus light where it goes
next the lens but before we get there we
pass through the pupil it's not a black
circle in your eyeball it's a hole black
because there's no light inside your eye
red eye and flash photos is because the
light from the camera is passing through
and bouncing off the back of your eye
it's full of blood vessels in there so
your pupils glow red but this pupil is
too small I can barely squeeze through
how the lights too bright
the tiny muscles in your irises that's
the colored part of your eye we know and
at my
have relaxed to make the pupil smaller
this doesn't let too much light in and
protects your eyes from excessive
brightness turn the lights down a little
and the iris muscles contract the pupil
gets bigger as the eye demands more
light to be let through there we go we
pass through and come upon the aspirin
sized lens like your ears and nose your
lens continues to grow throughout your
whole life and just like in a camera it
focuses the light even more that way it
hits exactly where it needs to be on the
retina that's the back of the eye I can
see our human here is nearsighted things
far away are blurry look at where the
lens is focusing the light into a single
point it's not on the retina but a
little before it this happens when your
eye is slightly too long if you're
farsighted things up close are blurry
that focal point goes behind the eye
because your eyeballs too short don't
worry it's nothing a pair of glasses
can't fix
oh it's roomy in here that I thought
hello
well it's because you only see about 1/6
of your eye when you look in the mirror
the rest of it is inside your head your
eyes themselves are about the size of
ping pong balls and just within this
seemingly small little organ there are
over 2 million working parts well hold
on everything's shifting to the right
whoa now to the left our human must be
looking for something your eyes move
thanks to six muscles holding them in
the socket certain ones contract and
your glance changes direction up-down
left-right all around okay things have
calmed down so let's continue following
the light projection say you're looking
at a big bright Apple sitting on a blue
table a yellow light bulb hangs above if
you could see the image in here it'd be
upside down on the back screen of your
eye it's because the lens bent the beam
but you can't see this picture on the
retina because eyes aren't projectors
it's just light hitting some tissue on
the back wall of your eyeball there are
nerves and special receptors back there
they turn the light coming into your eye
into nerve impulses the brain then
decodes and makes sense up so we journey
further here are those receptors they
can be cones or rods cones are the
reason your incredible eye can detect up
to 7 million colors surprisingly though
your cones come in only three types red
green and blue it's the combination of
their work that allows you to see
magenta chartreuse or cyan except for
colorblind people they might be missing
one of those types or they don't work as
they should so these people don't see
certain colors at all or things aren't
true to their color for example if
there's something wrong with your green
sensitive cones green and yellow look
reddish brown
there are also your rods they pick up
black white and over 500 shades of gray
in between a more than 50 shades of gray
you also have more of them than cones
and the rods are mostly in charge of
your peripherals yep everything outside
your direct field of vision looks like
old black and white TV rods also help
you see in low-light the photoreceptors
in your eyes are so sensitive they can
even project an image when it's not even
there
every looked at a bright light closed
your eyes door turn off the light and
you can still see the shape of that
light bulb floating before your eyes
that's your photoreceptors continuing to
send visual information to your brain
your rods and cones are connected to
neurons so the data gets passed there
and makes its way to your optic nerve
this is where blood vessels and the main
paths to the brain enter and exit the
eyeball this is also where your blind
spot is there are no rods or cones here
you can test it to grab a piece of paper
in a pen
oh wait okay make a dot on the left side
and a plus about a hands length to the
right of it hold the paper at arm's
length close your right eye and stare at
the plus sign the dot will disappear
because it's in your blind spot if it
doesn't move the paper closer or further
away until the dot disappears do the
same thing with your left eye closed and
stare at the dot with your right eye the
plus sign will vanish when it enters
your blind spot you don't notice these
spots because your brain fills in the
missing information so we travel along
the optic nerve and into the message
decoder your brain Wow shocked me oh
yeah we're in the nervous system now so
we're traveling with electric impulses
the optic nerve leads into your brains
visual cortex this is where that upside
down image gets translated into
something we understand that's a blue
table with a red apple sitting on it a
yellow light shines above
and your brain knows up and down thanks
to your ears well your balance system
which is mostly in your ears anyway
the brain is also we're missing puzzle
pieces like the stuff in your blind spot
gets filled in with information based on
its vast collection of archives the dot
on the left is my blind spot so I'll
just fill in the missing space and make
it look like the paper continued
seamlessly there but our journey didn't
start when we entered the I would liked
it started when light from a source
bounced off an object and then into the
eye why do we see different colors
because visible light travels in
different wavelengths that red Apple on
the table absorbs other colors and
reflects red white legs also pronounced
as red light waves the table reflects
blue and so on black objects absorb all
the light and white things reflect most
of it those reflected waves hit cones
and rods sensitive to them and your
world is filled with color especially
red white leaves